# DWE-2024
#### In my year, the compulsory economic history paper for BA History and Economics students was titled Development of the World Economy, now renamed History of the World Economy.
#### After Oxford has provided me with top-tier training in history, this paper seemed like a joke. This paper espouses Eurocentric views that have been eclipsed in the last century. For example, how geography was a determinant of growth was often attributed to Montesquieu's Spirit of the Laws in which he describes that a people's temperament is determined by their respective climates. If I haven't failed my 18th-century European history paper, Montesquieu then goes on to use derogatory terms on Muslim people. There are many worthwhile ideas in the Spirit of the Laws, but 18th-century scientific racism is not one of them. Due to the development of science, studies of anatomy, race was no longer about skin colour but fundamental differences between different peoples. The institutions view of how Islamic law did not provide the soil to breed inclusive institutions and the like fall into this 18th century simplistic view of the world. Although all the authors somehow claim that they were not stressing fundamental differences between peoples and cultures, I find that hard to believe when they possess the level of audacity to run 500 year long regressions and to claim correlation. 
#### This paper is often, very blatantly, historically wrong. If you are an E&M or PPE student wishing to learn a bit about history on this course you would be gravely mistaken. The economists selected in this paper have no better understanding of political history than 12-year-olds who claim to like anarchy. All the long run causation papers rely on sheer coincidence. Read the attached essay to see how these conclusions are shaped by the arbitrary selection of periods. I took the Middle East the in Age of Empire 1830-1970 paper in history. It is also clear Chaney did not read any of the stuff that is fundamental for considering doing history in this field. How could he claim the persistence of institutions due to the Arab Conquest, leading to a lack of democracy today, if he for once considered efforts at a constitution in the Tanzimat, the British and French Mandates and the subsequent violence and extreme pauperisation.
#### There are some topics that require the specific skillset of an economic historian and I would advise you to take your time to study those. If you took macro, consider the Solow growth model in tandem with the convergence and divergence topic, what determines the steady state, whether the embracing of foreign technologies was feasible, etc. The topic on the Malthusian model, demographic transition, and human capital views are also worth your while. Again if you took macro, consider human capital in tandem with skill-biased technical change. The second half of the lectures on stuff after the 20th century needs the eye of an economist.
#### To do well in the exam, demonstrate that you understand the economics behind the papers, tell the story in a model and not in plain text. Use all the economic vocabulary that you know from micro, macro, and QE. My essays have gotten better at doing this over the course of the term, refer to later essays. Also, take a bit of time to create a mind map of the literature and how they link with each other. How I connect the readings is merely for reference.
#### If you are reading these notes you have already wasted your time on this paper. I know sunk costs are not supposed to determine decisions. But still, do well.
